=messagebus-client=

Java client for MessageBus.

==Build==
Prerequisite:
*Java 6 or higher
*Maven 2

 $ mvn package

The binaries will be built under target/. 

uber-mbus-client-x.x.x.jar is a jar that includes all dependencies and can be included to your classpath for usage. This may result in dependency conflict with other dependencies in your project. messagebus-client-x.x.x.jar doesn't include dependencies. We have also published the jar to public maven repository. Search for messagebus-client there to get the latest version to include to your project (via pom.xml).

==Usage==
===Include messagebus-client to your Maven project===
messagebus-client is deployed to Maven Central. Add following dependency to your pom.xml.

  <dependency>
    <groupId>com.groupon.messagebus</groupId>
    <artifactId>messagebus-client</artifactId>
    <version>x.x.x</version>
  </dependency>

===Quick start with ProducerExample and ConsumerExample===
You can try publishing and consuming example messages with com.groupon.messagebus.client.examples.ProducerExample/ConsumerExample. Note that this example publishes generated messages. It can be used to test connection with your servers. See next section for guidance of implementing your publisher/consumer.

*Create producer_example.properties as:

 server={Host name. DNS to your load balancer if you use one.}
 port={Port number. default:61613}
 dest_type=TOPIC
 dest_name=jms.topic.{A Topic}
 msg_count=30000
 msg_size=10000

*Create consumer_example.properties as:

 server={Host name. DNS to your load balancer if you use one.}
 port={Port number. default:61613}
 dest_type=TOPIC
 dest_name=jms.topic.{A Topic}
 msg_count=2000000
 msg_size=1024
 subscription_id={A subscription identifier.}
 rcv_timeout=5000
 use_dynamic_servers={true if your servers are running in cluster mode. false otherwise.}

*To publish: 
  $java -cp uber-mbus-client-xxx.jar com.groupon.messagebus.client.examples.ProducerExample producer_example.properties

*To consume:
  $java -cp uber-mbus-client-xxx.jar com.groupon.messagebus.client.examples.ConsumerExample consumer_example.properties

===Publish Message===
To publish messages, you need to use com.groupon.messagebus.api.ProducerConfig and com.groupon.messagebus.client.ProducerImpl. Simple example:

 import com.groupon.messagebus.api.*;
 import com.groupon.messagebus.client.*;
 ...
 ProducerConfig config = new ProducerConfig();
 HostParams host = new HostParams("hornetq-server-lb", 61613);
 config.setBroker(host);
 config.setDestinationType(DestinationType.TOPIC);
 config.setDestinationName("jms.topic.testTopic1");
 Producer producer = new ProducerImpl();
 producer.start(config);
 Message message = Message.createStringMessage( "All work and no play makes jack a dull boy" );
 try {
     producer.sendSafe(message, headers);
 } catch (Exception e) {
     e.printStackTrace();
 }
 producer.stop();

You can also check out com.groupon.messagebus.client.examples.ProducerExample for more sophisticated example.

===Consumer Message===
To consume messages, you config with com.groupon.messagebus.api.ConsumerConfig and uses com.groupon.messagebus.client.ConsumerConfig. You usually put consumer.Receive method inside a while loop and handle messages when one comes. Simple example:

  import com.groupon.messagebus.api.*;
  import com.groupon.messagebus.client.*;
  ...
  ConsumerConfig config = new ConsumerConfig();
  //Although the consumers connects to all hosts in the cluster, you only need to set the LB here.
  HostParams host = new HostParams("hornetq-server-lb", 61613);
  Set<HostParams> hostsList = new HashSet<HostParams>();
  hostsList.add(host);
  config.setHostParams(hostsList);
  Consumer con = new ConsumerImpl();
  con.start(config);
  try{
      while(true){
          Message tmp = con.receive();
          MessagePayloadType type = tmp.getMessagePayloadType();
          switch(type){
                case MessagePayloadType.BINARY) 
                System.out.println(new String(tmp.getBinaryPayload()));
                break;
              case MessagePayloadType.JSON:
                System.out.println(tmp.getJSONStringPayload());
                break;
              case MessagePayloadType.STRING:
                System.out.println(tmp.getStringPayload());
                break;
          }
      }
  }finally{
    con.stop();
  }
      }
 }finally{
      con.stop();
 }

You can also check out com.groupon.messagebus.client.examples.ConsumerExample for more sophisticated example.
